.TH ABRAFLEXI\-CLI 1 "2026-04-29" "abraflexi-cli 0.2.0" "AbraFlexi CLI Manual"
.SH NAME
abraflexi\-cli \- command-line interface for the AbraFlexi accounting REST API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B abraflexi\-cli
[\fB\-\-envfile\fR=\fIFILE\fR]
.I COMMAND
[\fICOMMAND\-OPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B abraflexi\-cli
is a Symfony Console-based tool for interacting with the AbraFlexi (FlexiBee)
accounting REST API.
It allows listing companies, browsing evidence catalogues, and reading or
creating individual records.
.PP
Connection parameters are read from the environment (see
.B ENVIRONMENT
below).
A \fI.env\fR file in the current directory, in the application directory, or
supplied via \fB\-\-envfile\fR is loaded automatically.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-envfile= FILE
Load environment variables from \fIFILE\fR before connecting to the API.
Takes precedence over an automatically discovered \fI.env\fR file.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display help for the given command and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-v|\-vv|\-vvv
Increase output verbosity (verbose, very verbose, debug).
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Suppress all output except errors.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-interaction
Do not ask any interactive questions.
.TP
.B \-\-ansi|\-\-no\-ansi
Force or disable ANSI colour output.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS status
.B abraflexi\-cli status
.PP
Display the currently configured connection parameters (URL, user, company)
and verify that the server and the selected company are reachable.
Exits with a non-zero status when any required parameter is missing or the
server cannot be contacted.
.SS list\-companies
.B abraflexi\-cli list\-companies
.PP
List all companies available on the configured AbraFlexi server.
The output table contains the database name, the human-readable company name,
and the company's current state.
.SS list\-evidences
.B abraflexi\-cli list\-evidences
.PP
List all evidence catalogues available in the selected company.
The output table contains the evidence path, its name, and a short description.
.SS record
.B abraflexi\-cli record
.I EVIDENCE
[\fIOPERATION\fR]
[\fIID\fR]
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.PP
Interact with records of the named evidence.
.I EVIDENCE
is the API path identifier of the evidence (e.g.\&
.IR faktura\-vydana ,
.IR banka ,
.IR adresar ).
.PP
.I OPERATION
is one of:
.RS
.TP
.B list
(default) Display a paginated table of records.
.TP
.B show
Display all fields of the record with the given \fIID\fR.
.TP
.B create
Create a new record.
Data can be provided as JSON via \fB\-\-data\fR or as individual
\fB\-\-\fIfield\fB=\fIvalue\fR options.
Mandatory fields are checked before submission unless \fB\-\-force\fR is set.
.RE
.PP
Options for
.BR record :
.RS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-columns =\fICOLS\fR
Comma-separated list of column names to display (default:
.BR id,kod,nazev ).
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-limit =\fIN\fR
Maximum number of records to return (default: 20).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-start =\fIOFFSET\fR
Pagination start offset.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-order =\fIEXPR\fR
Sort expression accepted by the AbraFlexi API (e.g.\& \fInazev@A\fR).
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-filter =\fIQUERY\fR
Filter expression accepted by the AbraFlexi API
(e.g.\& \fInazev BEGINS 'A'\fR).
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-detail =\fILEVEL\fR
Level of detail: \fIsummary\fR, \fIfull\fR, \fIid\fR, etc.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-relations =\fIVALUE\fR
Include related sub-evidence relations.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-includes =\fIVALUE\fR
Include related objects in the response.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Simulate the operation without making changes on the server.
.TP
.B \-\-add\-row\-count
Request the total row count from the server and include it in the output.
.TP
.BI \-\-data= JSON
JSON-encoded data object for the \fBcreate\fR operation.
.TP
.B \-\-force
Skip mandatory-field validation and create the record anyway.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ABRAFLEXI_URL
Full URL of the AbraFlexi REST API, including port
(e.g.\& \fIhttps://server:5434\fR).
.TP
.B ABRAFLEXI_LOGIN
.TQ
.B ABRAFLEXI_USER
Login username for the API.
\fBABRAFLEXI_LOGIN\fR takes precedence over \fBABRAFLEXI_USER\fR.
.TP
.B ABRAFLEXI_PASSWORD
Password for the API user.
.TP
.B ABRAFLEXI_COMPANY
Database name of the company to connect to.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .env
If present in the current working directory or in the application installation
directory, environment variables are loaded from this file on startup.
.TP
.I /etc/abraflexi\-cli/.env
System-wide default environment file (if deployed by the system administrator).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General failure (missing parameters, API error, record not found, etc.).
.SH EXAMPLES
Check the connection to the configured server:
.RS
.EX
abraflexi\-cli status
.EE
.RE
.PP
List all companies on the server:
.RS
.EX
abraflexi\-cli list\-companies
.EE
.RE
.PP
List the first 50 issued invoices showing only selected columns:
.RS
.EX
abraflexi\-cli record faktura\-vydana list \-\-limit=50 \-\-columns=id,kod,popis,datVyst
.EE
.RE
.PP
Show all fields of invoice with code \fIFV-001\fR:
.RS
.EX
abraflexi\-cli record faktura\-vydana show FV-001
.EE
.RE
.PP
Create a new address book entry using JSON data:
.RS
.EX
abraflexi\-cli record adresar create \-\-data='{"nazev":"ACME s.r.o.","ic":"12345678"}'
.EE
.RE
.PP
Use a custom environment file:
.RS
.EX
abraflexi\-cli \-\-envfile=/etc/mycompany.env list\-evidences
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR php (1),
.BR composer (1)
.PP
AbraFlexi REST API documentation:
.I https://www.abraflexi.eu/api/documentation
.PP
Project homepage:
.I https://github.com/VitexSoftware/abraflexi\-cli
.SH AUTHOR
Vítězslav Dvořák <info@vitexsoftware.cz>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Vítězslav Dvořák.
Licensed under the MIT License.
